Add contributors guideline (#637)
microsoft/finops-toolkit: docs/_resources/contributors.md

---
layout: default
parent: Resources

> title: How to Contribute

Reviewer: Sentence casing
```suggestion
title: How to contribute
```

nav_order: 10
description: 'Contribute with the FinOps toolkit'
permalink: /resources/contributors
---

<span class="fs-9 d-block mb-4">FinOps Toolkit Contributors Guideline</span>
The FinOps Toolkit project welcomes contributions from the community.
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

<details open markdown="1">
   <summary class="fs-2 text-uppercase">On this page</summary>

> - [📝 How to Contribute](#-finops-toolkit-contribution-guide)
>   - [Working on existing bugs](#1-working-on-existing-bugs)
>   - [Suggesting and owning a new feature, fixing a bug, or suggesting a change for an existing Tool](#2-suggesting-and-owning-a-new-feature-fixing-a-bug-or-suggesting-a-change-for-an-existing-tool)
>   - [Submitting a proposal for a new tool](#3-submitting-a-proposal-for-a-new-tool)
>   - [Code review](#4-code-review)
>   - [Answering questions](#5-answering-questions)
>   - [Documentation update](#6-documentation-update)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Working on existing bugs](#-working-on-existing-bugs)
- [Suggesting and owning a new feature, fixing a bug, or suggesting a change for an existing Tool](#-suggesting-and-owning-a-new-feature-fixing-a-bug-or-suggesting-a-change-for-an-existing-tool)
- [Proposing a new tool](#-proposing-a-new-tool)
- [Reviewing pull requests](#-reviewing-pull-requests)
- [Answering questions](#-answering-questions)
- [Updating documentation](#-updating-documentation)
```

</details>

---

> ## 📝 FinOps Toolkit Contribution Guide
> 

Reviewer: The first descriptive paragraph doesn't usually have a header.
```suggestion
```

> Welcome to the FinOps Toolkit project! As an open-source initiative, our success hinges on the collective effort of the community. Your contributions play a vital role in enhancing and expanding the toolkit's capabilities, making it more valuable and effective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the FinOps toolkit! As an open-source initiative, our success hinges on the collective effort of the community. Your contributions play a vital role in enhancing and expanding the toolkit's capabilities, making it more valuable and effective.
```

> There are three primary ways you can contribute to the success of the project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways you can contribute to the FinOps toolkit:
```

1. 🐛 **Working on existing bugs:** You can assist by identifying and addressing existing bugs listed in our repository. 

> 2. 🛠️ **Suggesting and owning a new feature, fixing an existing bug, or suggesting a change for an existing tool:** This involves proposing new features, fixing bugs, or suggesting changes for existing tools. 

Reviewer: This is covering creating issues and making code changes. Should we split them for people who are may not be able to contribute code?

> 3. 💡 **Submitting a proposal for a new tool:** If you've developed a FinOps-related tool and want it to be part of the FinOps Toolkit, you can submit a proposal for consideration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. 💡 **Proposing a new tool:** If you've developed a FinOps-related tool and want it to be part of the FinOps toolkit, you can submit a proposal for consideration.
```

> 4. 👀 **Code review:** Code review is a critical aspect of maintaining code quality and ensuring the reliability and functionality of the project. By reviewing existing pull requests (PRs) suggested by community members, you can contribute significantly to the project's success without necessarily creating new code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. 👀 **Reviewing pull requests:** Code reviews are a critical aspect of maintaining code quality and ensuring the reliability and functionality of the project. By reviewing existing pull requests (PRs) suggested by community members, you can contribute significantly to the project's success without necessarily creating new code.
```

5. 💬 **Answering questions:** Being actively involved in answering questions and providing assistance to community members is an invaluable contribution to the project.

> 6. 📚 **Documentation update:** Documentation serves as a crucial resource for users, developers, and contributors alike. Keeping documentation accurate, comprehensive, and up-to-date is essential for the success of the toolkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. 📚 **Updating documentation:** Documentation serves as a crucial resource for users, developers, and contributors alike. Keeping documentation accurate, comprehensive, and up to date is essential for the success of the toolkit.

```

We appreciate your interest in contributing to the FinOps Toolkit project!

> ### 🐛 1. Working on existing bugs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br>

## 🐛 Working on existing bugs
```

If you're eager to contribute but unsure where to begin, a great starting point is to review the list of existing feedback and identify issues that align with your skills and interests. 

> 1. Look through the list of existing bugs in the [Issues tab](https://github.com/finopsfoundation/FinOpsToolkit/issues).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Look through the list of [existing issues](https://github.com/microsoft/finops-toolkit/issues).
```

2. Assign yourself to the bug you want to work on.

> If this is the first time you are working on the FinOps Toolkit repository, make sure to review our [Get Started Wiki.](https://github.com/microsoft/finops-toolkit/wiki#-test-and-verify)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If this is the first time you are working on the FinOps toolkit repository, make sure to review our [Get started wiki](https://github.com/microsoft/finops-toolkit/wiki#-get-started).

```

> Once you are assigned to the bug, GitHub will automatically assign the tag "Community Contributor" to inform the team responsible for that tool of your contribution. 

Reviewer: Is this something you're proposing? It doesn't do this today.

Author: Yes, I was hoping we could add a GitHub policy to assign this tag. I'm thinking about tracking the work done by the community.
 I will remove it so we can merge this PR but add to our backlog

> ### 🛠️ 2. Suggesting and owning a new feature, fixing an existing bug, or suggesting a change for an existing tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br>

## 🛠️ Suggesting and owning a new feature, fixing an existing bug, or suggesting a change for an existing tool
```

> #### Submitting a New Issue and Willing to Fix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Submitting a new issue
```

If you have a new feature suggestion, identified a bug, or have ideas for improving existing tools, we encourage you to submit an issue. Your feedback helps us ensure that the toolkit meets the needs of its users. And if you're willing to take it a step further and contribute to implementing your suggestions, we welcome your contributions with open arms! 

To do that, follow these steps: 

> 1. Go to the [Issues tab](https://github.com/finopsfoundation/FinOpsToolkit/issues) and click on "New issue".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the [issues list](https://github.com/finopsfoundation/FinOpsToolkit/issues) and click on "New issue".
```

2. Choose the option that best describes your contribution (bug fix, change request, or feature request).

> 3. Check the box "Willing to fix" at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: If they're willing to fix it, should we just ask them to submit a PR directly? I'm thinking we just remove this whole "willing to fix" part.

Author: Maybe they are willing to fix but they are not so comfortable working with GitHub (branches can be scary 👻) or they want to fix it, but are unsure how to proceed, etc. The idea of this checkbox is just a way for us to know that there is a person trying to fix that, and we may want to reach out to them and see if they need any help with it. 
Also, maybe there is value on reporting how many people are trying to fix these issues.

4. Submit your issue.

Your issue will be reviewed by the FinOps Toolkit governance team, who will reach out to you to discuss further and give you the green light to start developing. 

> ### 3. 💡 Submitting a proposal for a new tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br>

## 💡 Proposing a new tool
```

> If you have developed a FinOps-related tool and want it to be part of the FinOps Toolkit, follow these steps:

Reviewer: Any reason we don't want them to just create an issue?

> If you have developed a FinOps-related tool and want it to be part of the FinOps Toolkit, follow these steps:
> 
> 1. Send an email to [ftk-leads@microsoft.com](mailto:ftk-leads@microsoft.com) with your proposal.
> 2. Include as much information as possible about your tool and how it can benefit the FinOps community.
> 
> The FinOps toolkit governance committee will review your proposal and reach out to you for further discussion.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have developed a FinOps-related tool and want it to be part of the FinOps toolkit, send the details to [ftk-leads@microsoft.com](mailto:ftk-leads@microsoft.com?subject=[FTK]+New+tool+for+the+FinOps+toolkit). Please include as much information as possible about your tool and how it can benefit the FinOps community.

The FinOps toolkit governing board will review your proposal and reach out to you for further discussion.
```

> ### 4. 👀 **Code review**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br>

## 👀 **Reviewing pull requests**
```

> - **Review Pull Requests:** Regularly check the list of open PRs on the repository and provide constructive feedback on code changes proposed by community members. Ensure that the code adheres to our [coding guidelines](https://github.com/microsoft/finops-toolkit/wiki/Coding-guidelines.md), is well-documented, and follows best practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the list of [open pull requests](https://github.com/microsoft/finops-toolkit/pulls) and provide constructive feedback on code changes proposed by community members. Ensure that the code adheres to our [coding guidelines](https://github.com/microsoft/finops-toolkit/wiki/Coding-guidelines), is well-documented, and follows best practices.
```

> When possible, try to suggest code changes using **Add a suggestion** to streamline the review process.
> 
> ![Screenshot of the 'Add a suggestion' command in pull request reviews](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/399533/179936119-88c10c44-f181-4fa3-83b8-91376c8e4c58.png)
> 
> <br>
> 
> - **Improve Quality:** Offer suggestions for improving the quality of the code, such as optimizing performance, enhancing readability, and addressing potential edge cases or bugs.
> 
> - **Validate Functionality:** Test the functionality of the code changes proposed in the PR to ensure they work as intended. This involves running tests, verifying edge cases, and checking for any unintended side effects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Offer suggestions for improving the quality of the code, such as optimizing performance, enhancing readability, and addressing potential edge cases or bugs.

Test the functionality of the code changes proposed in the PR to ensure they work as intended. This involves running tests, verifying edge cases, and checking for any unintended side effects.

When possible, try to suggest code changes using **Add a suggestion** to streamline the review process.

![Screenshot of the 'Add a suggestion' command in pull request reviews](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/399533/179936119-88c10c44-f181-4fa3-83b8-91376c8e4c58.png)

<br>
```

> ### 5. 💬 Answering Questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 💬 Answering questions
```

Being actively involved in answering questions and providing assistance to community members is an invaluable contribution to the project.

> - **Share Knowledge:** Utilize your expertise and experience to provide helpful and informative responses to questions raised by community members. Offer clear explanations, examples, and references to support your answers.
> 
> - **Help Resolve Issues:** Assist community members in troubleshooting technical issues, or resolving configuration problems they encounter while using the toolkit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Share knowledge:** Utilize your expertise and experience to provide helpful and informative responses to questions raised by community members. Offer clear explanations, examples, and references to support your answers.
- **Help resolve issues:** Assist community members in troubleshooting technical issues, or resolving configuration problems they encounter while using the toolkit.
```

> ### 6. 📚 Documentation Update:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<br>

## 📚 Updating documentation
```

> - **Identify Areas for Improvement:** Review the existing documentation to identify any outdated information, inaccuracies, or gaps that need to be addressed.
> 
> - **Improve Clarity and Consistency:** Clarify ambiguous sections, reorganize content for better structure, and ensure consistency in terminology, formatting, and style throughout the documentation.
> 
> - **Update Content:** Update outdated information, add new content to cover recent features or changes, and remove obsolete sections that are no longer relevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Identify areas for improvement:** Review the existing documentation to identify any outdated information, inaccuracies, or gaps that need to be addressed.
- **Improve clarity and consistency:** Clarify ambiguous sections, reorganize content for better structure, and ensure consistency in terminology, formatting, and style throughout the documentation.
- **Update content:** Update outdated information, add new content to cover recent features or changes, and remove obsolete sections that are no longer relevant.
```
